Add a separate, more detailed explainer for the `isolated-app:` scheme. (#2)
reillyeon/isolated-web-apps: Scheme.md

The tentative name of this new scheme is `isolated-app:`, highlighting how Isolated Web Apps are isolated from each other and the web through enforced Content Security Policy and Cross-Origin Isolation.
When loading an `isolated-app:` URL, the user agent checks the signatures of the underlying web bundle and whether it trusts the public key that was used to sign it.
A user agent might trust, for example, public keys configured via enterprise policy, public keys of known distribution mechanisms/stores, or separately allow-listed public keys of individual Isolated Web Apps.
`isolated-app:` URLs are considered Secure Contexts, just like HTTPS pages, and thus have access to APIs like Service Workers. `isolated-app:` URLs look like so:

```
isolated-app://signed-web-bundle-id/path/inside/app.js?some-query#foo
^           ://^                   /^                 ?^         #^
scheme         opaque host          path               query      fragment
```

### Host

URLs with the `isolated-app:` scheme use a Signed Web Bundle ID (see next section) as their opaque host, as defined in the [URL standard](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/).

> The Signed Web Bundle ID being the host adds the requirement that it must be a valid hostname (see [RFC 3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986)), which is the case given that Signed Web Bundle IDs are [base32-encoded](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4648) without padding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Signed Web Bundle ID being the host adds the requirement that it must be a valid hostname (see [RFC 3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986)). This requirement is satisfied by using [base32 encoding](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4648), with padding removed.
```

> It is the user agent’s responsibility to map the Signed Web Bundle ID contained in the opaque host to an installed Isolated Web App and then use the URL path to serve resources from its Web Bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is the user agent’s responsibility to map the Signed Web Bundle ID contained in the opaque host to an installed Isolated Web App and its associated Web Bundle. The URL path is then used to fetch resources as relative URLs from the bundle.
```

### Port & Credentials

Isolated Web App URLs do not use usernames, passwords, or ports.
All three of these components are therefore always `null`.

> Isolated Web App URLs with a port or credentials should not be loaded and result in an HTTP error.

Reviewer: Let's use some RFC2119 words.

```suggestion
Isolated Web App URLs with a port or credentials must not be loaded and must result in an HTTP error.
```

### Path, Query, Fragment

These work like one would expect from HTTP(S) URLs, as described in the URL specification.

## Signed Web Bundle IDs

Isolated Web Apps are identified by their _Signed Web Bundle ID_.
Signed Web Bundle IDs consist of an identifier followed by a suffix that represents the type of identifier.

> Both parts are concatenated and base32-encoded, discarding any potential padding.

Reviewer: It may be worth specifying that to decode a Signed Web Bundle ID the padding can be restored by adding padding characters until the input length is a multiple of 8.

Author: Done, PTAL.

`0x00 0x00 0x02`: This suffix indicates that the ID is a user-agent-specific value that can be used for testing and development purposes.
For example, loading a Web Bundle from the local filesystem which is not signed.

`0x00 0x01 0x02`: This suffix is used for [Ed25519](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8032) public keys as Signed Web Bundle ID.
It is prefixed by the 32-byte representation of the Ed25519 public key that is used to sign the web bundle (see [this explainer](https://github.com/WICG/webpackage/blob/main/explainers/integrity-signature.md) for more details about the signing process).
Since this Signed Web Bundle ID is only dependent on the signing key, it makes it possible to have the same Signed Web Bundle ID regardless of the distribution mechanism of the Isolated Web App, without requiring a central authority to manage keys.

### Example:

Public Ed25519 key (hex, 32 bytes):
```
01 23 43 43 33 42 7A 14 42 14
a2 b6 c2 d9 f2 02 03 42 18 10
12 26 62 88 f6 a3 a5 47 14 69
00 73
```

Public key and suffix (hex, 35 bytes):
```
01 23 43 43 33 42 7A 14 42 14
a2 b6 c2 d9 f2 02 03 42 18 10
12 26 62 88 f6 a3 a5 47 14 69
00 73 00 01 02
```

> Base32-encoded public key and suffix (56 chars long):

Reviewer: There's a step before this where the public key and suffix are base32-encoded but include 4 padding characters.

Reviewer: My mistake, I misread the base32 spec as saying "multiple of 40 bytes" instead of "multiple of 40 bits".

# `isolated-app:` Scheme Explainer

This document provides a more detailed look at the `isolated-app:` scheme, which is part of the proposal for [Isolated Web Apps](./README.md).

> Isolated Web Apps are a new proposal to build an application using web technologies, but with additional security properties compared to normal web pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Isolated Web Apps are a new proposal to build applications using web technologies, but with additional security properties compared to normal web pages.
```

Isolated Web Apps bundle all their contents inside a web bundle that is then [signed to make its integrity verifiable](https://github.com/WICG/webpackage/blob/main/explainers/integrity-signature.md).
A key difference between Isolated Web Apps and normal web pages is that Isolated Web Apps do not rely on DNS name resolution and HTTPS certificate authorities.

> Instead, they need to be downloaded and installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, they need to be downloaded and installed from an app store or be distributed via enterprise configuration.
```

The tentative name of this new scheme is `isolated-app:`, highlighting how Isolated Web Apps are isolated from each other and the web through enforced Content Security Policy and Cross-Origin Isolation.
When loading an `isolated-app:` URL, the user agent checks the signatures of the underlying web bundle and whether it trusts the public key that was used to sign it.
A user agent might trust, for example, public keys configured via enterprise policy, public keys of known distribution mechanisms/stores, or separately allow-listed public keys of individual Isolated Web Apps.
`isolated-app:` URLs are considered Secure Contexts, just like HTTPS pages, and thus have access to APIs like Service Workers. `isolated-app:` URLs look like so:

```
isolated-app://signed-web-bundle-id/path/inside/app.js?some-query#foo
^           ://^                   /^                 ?^         #^
scheme         opaque host          path               query      fragment
```

### Host

URLs with the `isolated-app:` scheme use a Signed Web Bundle ID (see next section) as their opaque host, as defined in the [URL standard](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/).

> The Signed Web Bundle ID being the host adds the requirement that it must be a valid hostname (see [RFC 3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986)), which is the case given that Signed Web Bundle IDs are base32 encoded without padding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Signed Web Bundle ID being the host adds the requirement that it must be a valid hostname (see [RFC 3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986)), which is the case given that Signed Web Bundle IDs are [base32-encoded](https://tools.ietf.org/doc/tcllib/html/base32.html) without padding.
```

Author: I added a link to https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4648 instead, which I think is a better reference.

Reviewer 2: Perfect.

It is the user agent’s responsibility to map the Signed Web Bundle ID contained in the opaque host to an installed Isolated Web App and then use the URL path to serve resources from its Web Bundle.

### Port & Credentials

Isolated Web App URLs do not use usernames, passwords, or ports.
All three of these components are therefore always `null`.
Isolated Web App URLs with a port or credentials should not be loaded and result in an HTTP error.

### Path, Query, Fragment

These work like one would expect from HTTP(S) URLs, as described in the URL specification.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Signed Web Bundle IDs

> We identify Isolated Web Apps by their _Signed Web Bundle ID_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Isolated Web Apps are identified by their _Signed Web Bundle ID_.
```

Signed Web Bundle IDs consist of an identifier followed by a suffix that represents the type of identifier.
Both parts are concatenated and base32-encoded, discarding any potential padding.
The result is then transformed into lowercase.
The suffix itself consists of two parts: The last byte indicates how many bytes are used to describe the identifier type, and the `n` bytes before it are used to describe the identifier type.
The general format of Signed Web Bundle IDs looks like this:

```
lowercase(base32EncodeWithoutPadding([identifier] [identifier type] [identifier type length]))
```

Currently, the following two suffixes are defined:

`0x00 0x00 0x02`: This suffix indicates that the ID is a user-agent-specific value that can be used for testing and development purposes.
For example, loading a Web Bundle from the local filesystem which is not signed.

> `0x00 0x01 0x02`: This suffix is used for Ed25519 public keys as Signed Web Bundle ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`0x00 0x01 0x02`: This suffix is used for [Ed25519](https://tools.ietf.org/id/draft-ietf-curdle-ssh-ed25519-02.xml) public keys as Signed Web Bundle ID.
```

Author: I added a link to https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8032 instead, which I think is a better reference.

It is prefixed by the 32-byte representation of the Ed25519 public key that is used to sign the web bundle (see [this explainer](https://github.com/WICG/webpackage/blob/main/explainers/integrity-signature.md) for more details about the signing process).
Since this Signed Web Bundle ID is only dependent on the signing key, it makes it possible to have the same Signed Web Bundle ID regardless of the distribution mechanism of the Isolated Web App, without requiring a central authority to manage keys.

### Example:

Public Ed25519 key (hex, 32 bytes):
```
01 23 43 43 33 42 7A 14 42 14
a2 b6 c2 d9 f2 02 03 42 18 10
12 26 62 88 f6 a3 a5 47 14 69
00 73
```

Public key and suffix (hex, 35 bytes):
```
01 23 43 43 33 42 7A 14 42 14
a2 b6 c2 d9 f2 02 03 42 18 10
12 26 62 88 f6 a3 a5 47 14 69
00 73 00 01 02
```

> Base32 encoded public key and suffix (56 chars long):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Base32-encoded public key and suffix (56 chars long):
```
